# Problem

## [79. Word Search](https://leetcode.com/problems/word-search/)


# Solution 

## 1) Backtracking - OPTIMAL
 
      Since we need to search if the word string exists, we always start the dfs with the first letter.
      If the 1st letter is matched, we call the dfs function, which has the following steps :
      
          The exit condition is when we reached the end of the word string (here, we return true) or
          if we move out of bounds, or the current character does not match.
          
          Now, the current character in matrix matches with that of string, thus we move on the next character.
          But, before that we need to mark this character visisted, else we will run into an infinite loop or a wrong answer.
          This can be done using a visisted matrix or we change the current character into another character which is out of the constraints.
          
          Next, we search through the 4 directions for the valid one.
          
          Finally, if the next character is not found, we backtrack by changing the character to its previous alphabet.
      
      
   ### Code : (.cpp)
    
          class Solution {
          public:
              bool search(vector<vector<char>>& board, int i, int j, int m, int n, string& word, int z, int s) {
                  if (z == s) return 1; 
                  if (i < 0 || j < 0 || i >= m || j >= n || board[i][j] != word[z]) return 0;
                  char temp = board[i][j];
                  board[i][j] = '#';
                  if (search(board,i+1,j,m,n,word,z+1,s) || search(board,i,j+1,m,n,word,z+1,s) || search(board,i-1,j,m,n,word,z+1,s) || search(board,i,j-1,m,n,word,z+1,s)) return 1;
                  board[i][j] = temp;
                  return 0;
              }

              bool exist(vector<vector<char>>& board, string word) {
                  int i, j, m = board.size(), n = board[0].size(), s = word.size();
                  for (i=0;i<m;i++) 
                      for (j=0;j<n;j++)
                          if (board[i][j] == word[0]) {
                              if (search(board,i,j,m,n,word,0,s))
                                  return 1;
                          }
                  return 0;
              }
          };
          
          
          
      Time Complexity  : O(N*M*4^S)
                         Since we traverse through all letters and from each letter we search for the remaining characters
                         in 4 different directions.
            
      Space Complexity : O(S)
                         Since we didn't use any extra space for storing, but this is dfs recursion stack space (auxillary space)
                         i.e. the height of the tree is the size of the string.
