# Problem

## [611. Valid Triangle Number](https://leetcode.com/problems/valid-triangle-number/)


# Solution 

## 1) BRUTE FORCE APPROACH - NAIVE
      
    Use 3 loops for 3 variables such that v[i]+v[j] > v[k] and all the values are greater than 0
    This causes TLE as the time complexity is O(n^3).
    
    
    Time Complexity  : O(N^3)
                       Since we use three nested loops to check every possible triplet
    Space Complexity : O(1)
                       Since no auxillary space is used. 



## 2) BINARY SEARCH - BETTER
      
    First, we sort the array in non-decreasing order ans start fromt eh index where the value is non-zero.
    We use two loops to iterate over variables i and j.
    For the 3rd variable, we can apply binary search to find the upper bound of the value (v[i]+v[j]-1) which we store in k,
    and add (k-j-1) to answer.
    
    
    Time Complexity  : O(N^2*log(N))
                       Since we use two nested loops and binary search on each iteration to check every possible triplet
    Space Complexity : O(1)
                       Since no auxillary space is used. 



## 3) LINEAR TRAVERSAL using TWO POINTERS - OPTIMAL
      
    Like the last approach, we sort the array in non-decreasing order ans start fromt eh index where the value is non-zero.
    We use two loops to iterate over variables i and j.
      But for the 3rd variable - k, we can iterate from i+2 upto n while v[i]+v[j] > v[k]
      If the condition is false, we add (k-j-1) to ans. 
      Next, we continue with the next iteration of j
 
 
   ### Code : (.cpp)
    
          class Solution {
          public:
              int triangleNumber(vector<int>& v) {
                  int i, j, k, n = v.size(), a = 0, ans = 0;
                  sort(v.begin(), v.end());
                  while (a < n && v[a] == 0) a++;
                  for (i=a;i<n-2;i++) {
                      k = i+2;
                      for (j=i+1;j<n-1;j++) {
                          while (k < n && v[i]+v[j] > v[k]) k++;
                          ans += (k-j-1);
                      }
                  }
                  return ans;
              }
          };
    
    
    Time Complexity  : O(N^2)
                       Since we use two nested loops to count the number of triplets
    Space Complexity : O(1)
                       Since no auxillary space is used. 
                
